Document how to set-up additional data lakes for rasa-pro-analytics (#11721)
RasaHQ/rasa: docs/docs/monitoring/analytics/getting-started-with-analytics.mdx

:::

### BigQuery

To stream data from PostgreSQL to BigQuery, you can use [Datastream for BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs).
Datastream for BigQuery supports several [PostgreSQL deployment types](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/configure-your-source-postgresql-database#overview),
including [CloudSQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres).

Before you begin, make sure to check the Datastream [prerequisites](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/before-you-begin), as well as

> additional Datastream networking connectivity [requirements](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/quickstart-replication-to-bigquery#requirements)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additional Datastream networking connectivity [requirements](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/quickstart-replication-to-bigquery#requirements).
```

:::

### BigQuery

> These instructions assume you have running a PostgreSQL deployment in [CloudSQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These instructions assume you have a running PostgreSQL deployment in [CloudSQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres).
```

You can however use [Datastream for BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs) to stream data from PostgreSQL
hosted anywhere on any cloud.

> [Prerequisites](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/before-you-begin) to using DataStream include:

Reviewer 2: what feels weird to me is the order of sentences up until this one:
- line 225: these instructions are for Postgres in Cloud SQL
- line 226: but you can use datastream if you use postgres outside of GCP
- line 229: to use datastrea, etc...

Do users also need DataStream for CloudSQL postgres?

> [Prerequisites](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/before-you-begin) to using DataStream include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Prerequisites](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/before-you-begin) to using Datastream include:
```

- creating a Google Cloud account where you create your Google Cloud project
- enabling billing for the project
- enabling the Datastream API
- assigning Datastream Admin role to your user account

> - additional Datastream networking connectivity [requirements](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/quickstart-replication-to-bigquery#requirements)

Reviewer 2: I don't think it makes sense to list all of these prerequisites here. But linking to them is a good idea yeah

> You can follow closely the [quickstart Google Cloud documentation](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/quickstart-replication-to-bigquery) on replicating data from PostgreSQL to BigQuery with Datastream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can closely follow [this quickstart](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/quickstart-replication-to-bigquery) on replicating data from PostgreSQL to BigQuery with Datastream.
```

- Create a [stream](https://cloud.google.com/datastream/docs/create-a-stream)

### Snowflake

You can sync your PostgreSQL deployment manually or via an automated [partner solution](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ecosystem-etl.html).

The instructions for manual sync include the following steps:
- Extract data from PostgreSQL to file using `COPY INTO` [command](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/copy-into-location.html).
  You should also explore the Snowflake [data loading best practices](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-considerations.html) before extraction.
- Stage the extracted data files to either internal or external locations such as AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage or Microsoft Azure
- Copy staged files to Snowflake tables using `COPY INTO` [command](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/copy-into-table.html).
  You can decide to use [bulk data loading](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-bulk.html) into Snowflake or to load continuously using [Snowpipe](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-snowpipe.html).

>   Alternatively you can also benefit of [this plugin](https://cdap.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOCS/pages/694157985/Cloud+Storage+to+Snowflake+Action) to load data to an existing Snowflake table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively you can also benefit from [this plugin](https://cdap.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOCS/pages/694157985/Cloud+Storage+to+Snowflake+Action) to load data to an existing Snowflake table.
```
